[Music]
17 jaw-dropping things you didn't know
about the human body
did you love science at school let's
face it only a handful of us had the
stomach for learning all the scientific
stuff back then by heart but today's
topic will be easier to perceive what is
more it will be much more exciting
we have 17 jaw-dropping facts about your
body that may still be hard to swallow
and digest but you will be all ears to
hear about them if you have any comments
while watching the video don't go back
share them below the video and hit the
like button to show us that you
appreciate our work number 17 your brain
can generate enough electricity to power
a small light bulb when you are awake
your brain is known to generate
electricity in the amount of about 15 to
25 watts this power is quite enough to
keep a low wattage LED lamp shining
simultaneously with electricity
production this organ generates random
thoughts up to 50,000 a day one more
shocking fact or better to say a myth
debunked the common knowledge that
people use just ten percent of brain
capacity is in fact very wrong pray the
scans conducted show that people use
most of their brain even when they are
asleep
number 16 human teeth are roughly as
strong as sharp teeth and it's a
flattering comparison sharks have on
average 15 rows of strong teeth placed
in each jaw in fact they are already
born with a set of teeth and can protect
themselves from the baby age sharks are
those lucky creatures that don't suffer
from teeth problems and cavities and
their teeth are as strong as the human
ones now to the fun part the enamel
which covers the top of your teeth is
the hardest part of your whole body
[Music]
number 15 depending on its acidity if
your stomach acid made contact with your
skin it could eat a hole in it
hydrochloric acid is a typical
inhabitant of a human stomach this type
of acid is industrial grade and can in
fact destroy metals and the human body
though it protects the immune system and
kills off lots of viruses and bacteria
contained in the food people eat also
the acid helps a special enzyme to grind
products consisting of proteins so that
your body can digest such food easier
and one more super cute fact about your
stomach if you blush the insides of this
organ turn red as well
[Music]
number fourteen apart from its in
flammability the human hair is virtually
indestructible hair is a fabulous part
of a human body first of all it is the
place where all the information about a
person is stored even the content of
your bloodstream such as vitamins drugs
or alcohol can be found out from a
strand of hair analysis one strand can
support about 3.5 ounces of weight
number 13
humans can create up to seven thousand
different facial expressions
well actually according to scientists
there are four main or basic facial
expressions angry afraid surprised happy
and sad based on these all the rest of
7,000 expressions are performed it is
interesting than facial expressions
which are genuine are more likely to be
symmetrical number twelve babies have
over 60 more bones in their bodies than
adults babies are born with as many as
270 bones later on some of the bones
start fusing together for instance the
bones of the spine another good example
is a baby skull that has several
overlapping bones it makes it easier for
a baby to squeeze out during the birth
number 11 the resolution of the human
eye is estimated to be around 500
megapixels
it makes them 72 times more precise than
the rear camera of an iPhone 6
what is more your eyes can see the
difference between 10 million colors
sounds great just one question
why do we need smartphone screens with
16 million color range
[Music]
number twelve an adult skin weighs
around seventeen point six pounds or
more on average making up 16% of the
total body weight you would probably
never say so but it is the largest organ
of the human body
perhaps the skin weight makes lifting up
another human being so difficult another
interesting fact about your skin is that
every square inch of it is covered with
more than 600 sweat glands it might be
the reason people's sweat a lot number 9
the human skeleton completely
regenerates itself every 10 years since
this is happening constantly on a
cellular level you always have a blend
of old and new bones in your body but it
doesn't mean you shouldn't take care of
your current bones thinking that they
will anyway be replaced within a decade
eat calcium rich food to help them stay
strong number eight
your eyes stay closed for about 10
percent of your waking outs
that's the time you spend believing a
person blinks on average 15 times a
minute though what is proven that women
do it twice as often as men
what is more women on birth control
pills blink even more frequently than
those who don't take them the bigger can
go as high as 32% more often at the same
time babies don't blink as much as
adults only two of even fewer times a
minute number seven your kidneys filter
all of your blood about 25 times a day
processing 4.75 gallons of it all
together only 1% of the blood they
filter turn into the urine the rest is
redistributed throughout the body a
kidney of an adult isn't big at all in
fact its size can be compared to that of
a fist it's hard to imagine the biggest
kidneys don't ever its weight was two
and a half pounds and it looked like a
coconut number six the pink corner of
our eye is the third eyelid a third
eyelid you will ask do we have it yes
we humans retain a tiny fold in the
inner corner of the eye it is what is
left from a membrane birds and mammals
have had for protecting the ions
sweeping out debris at the same time
providing visibility we don't need this
function anymore so it's a high
possibility that it will disappear with
time number five the liver is capable of
fully regenerating its original size
even after removing as much as 75% of
the entire organ
it makes liver transplant surgeries
altogether possible and effective people
who donate part of their liver to those
who are in need don't have to worry
about their health their liver will soon
regenerate the part which has been
donated number four your heartbeat
synchronizes with the rhythm of the
music you are listening to recent
research shows that music especially the
one that contains a continuous increase
in volume with tempo makes your
heartbeat synchronize with it
it is relevant for both musicians and
amateurs or simply music lovers number
three the same enzymes that are
responsible for digesting the food
people eat will begin to digest the
human body itself after death to be
precise they make human organs start to
digest the body and the enzymes
themselves they team up with microbes
and the process of decomposition begins
number two some of the atoms in our
bodies are Stardust that is billions of
years old sounds very romantic doesn't
it unfortunately not only humans can
boast such body ingredients all plants
animals your food even your car contains
pieces of distant stars
the thing is when stars explode they
shoot the elements which they used to
consist of to the farthest corners of
the universe that is how Stardust may
unexpectedly appear in your Super Bowl
number one in an average lifetime the
heart pumps around 53 million gallons of
blood that's enough to fill
approximately 1.5 million barrels to do
so your heart has to be very hardworking
this fist-sized organ beats around 115
thousand times a day and pumps 2,000
gallons of blood in a lifetime the
number of it's beats can reach 3 billion
don't forget to give us a thumbs up if
the video gets 40 thousand likes we will
tell you 15 shocking facts about the
human evolution you've never heard about
join us on the bright side
[Music]